# About This Project

### Origins

During [Daniel Berner](http://berner.tech)'s freshman year as a computer science major at Bloomsburg University, he learned of the opportunity to receive a grant from the College of Science and Technology to conduct faculty-mentored research. The application required finding a faculty mentor and submitting a project proposal. There were a few areas of computer science Daniel was particularly interested in but knew little about and thought would make for a good research project. He contacted his Java professor, [Drue Coles](http://facstaff.bloomu.edu/dcoles/), and asked if he’d be willing to mentor him—Dr. Coles agreed. When Daniel mentioned the handful of research topics he was considering, Dr. Coles replied that one topic—_cryptographic Zero-Knowledge proofs_—was something he studied as a graduate student at Boston University. Dr. Coles experience, coupled with Daniel's interest, made the topic an obvious choice. With Dr. Coles' help, Daniel drafted and submitted a proposal to create a tutorial on Zero-knowledge proofs that was geared toward undergraduate computer science students. Much to Daniel's surprise, the proposal was accepted. The research took place the following semester. In addition to Zero-knowledge proofs, Dr. Coles introduced Daniel to some fundamentals of Number Theory and to a broader picture of cryptography. Keeping inline with his original proposal, Daniel started this project: _Elements of Cryptography_.

### A Work in Progress

The ultimate goal of this project is to collaboratively produce a complete introductory tutorial on cryptography. The initial contribution will be the contents of Daniel's research. This project is [open-source on GitHub](https://github.com/dyslexicon/elements-of-cryptography) and is hosted on [GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com/). Contributions, corrections, and criticisms are encouraged! It’s not that the world needs another tutorial on cryptography—excellent and comprehensive resources already exist \([here](https://www.coursera.org/learn/crypto) for example\). The idea is, to create a friendly atmosphere to learn about cryptography and open source collaboration, while producing something that’s hopefully useful to others. If you don’t know the first thing about cryptography or contributing to open source projects, but want to learn—this project is for you. There is a Latin proverb: _Docendo discimus_—“By teaching, we learn”. Einstein said something similar: “If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough”. These are the mantras of this project—please join in!

### Who is this for and what are the prerequisites?

This tutorial is for anyone who is completely new to cryptography. We endeavor to explain all cryptographic concepts \(including the underlying math\) from the ground up. By “from the ground up”, we mean, we assume the reader already has a grasp of basic algebra, but not much more. That being said, the source code implementations will be initially written solely in Java. While we may explain the particulars of a _class_ or a _method_, we won’t cover the fundamentals of the language. If you don’t know Java \(or programming for that matter\), fear not; there's still plenty to learn here. In summary, this tutorial is an introduction to applied cryptography that is beginner friendly but not lacking in detail.

